-> When you implement a new business strategy, how do you know whether or not your strategy is working? 

  -The most common way to ensure that your strategy is working is to identify "success metrics" before implementing your initiative.
  -Success metrics are also known as key performance indicators (KPIs).
  -Plays as a benchmark

-> Questions which Data Analyst, Leader should ask to themselves when working on Data: (Analyse Historical Data)
   Take a look at a specific year's metrics. Were they different than usual? What strategy did your team implement to get you those metrics? Was anything happening during that time that you can reflect on? Use these numbers to make decisions on how to move forward in the future so you can make more educated decisions.

These are different success metrics:
* General business metrics:-
     i- Gross profit margin: Co. Net Sales - Cost of Good Sold

    ii- Return on investment(ROI): Ratio (Income : Investment), ROI helps to decide wheter to invest in an initiative is worthy(time or money) or not. In Business Metric, it often tracks how well an investment is performing.

   iii- Productivity: measurement of how efficiently your company is producing goods or services. Division (Total Output/Total Input)

    iv- Total number of customers: simple but effective metric to track, The more paid customers = the more money earned for the business.

     v- Recurring revenue: Commonly used by SaaS companies, the amount revenue generated by current active subscribers of the company during a specific period, measured commonly either monthly or annually.

  Note: SaaS (Software as a Service) companies provide cloud-based software on a subscription basis, making applications accessible via the internet without local installation, with major players including Salesforce, Microsoft, Adobe, Google. Large SaaS Companies in India: Zoho, Freshworks, and BrowserStack

* Marketing metrics:-
  Note: Marketing is the process of creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and society, primarily to attract and retain customers by understanding and satisfying their needs through activities like research, advertising, and building relationships.

     i- Daily web traffic users: the number of users that visit your website daily.

    ii- New web traffic users: the number of users that visit your website who have never visited your website before.

   iii- Email open rates: particulary imp for email-marketing teams, measure the percentage of your audience who has opened your marketing email.

    iv- Number of leads generated: Particularly good for the marketing teams that work cross-functionally with sales, this metric measures the number of qualified leads that marketing team generated and passed over to the sales team. 

  Note: Qualified lead can vary depending on your team's goals.

* Customer success metrics:-
     i- Net promoter score (NPS): one of the most common measurements of customer loyalty and satisfaction, sometimes referred as customer satisfaction score. numerical value in response to the question, "How likely is it that you would recommend [your product or service]?" , NPS = (Individuals who voted 9-10)% - (Individuals who voted between 0-6)%

    ii- Customer retention rate: This metric measures how many of your customers remain  customers over a set period of time. It's up to your team to determine what timeframe makes sense for your business and industry.

   iii- Customer churn rate: This is the opposite of the retention rate, measures how often your customers stop doing business with your company.

    iv- Customer feedback: not a quantitative measure, anecdotal customer feedback can be extremely valuable to your company and can be used for testimonials and marketing strategy. Your customer experience is something that your team can curate, and the better experience they have the longer they stay a customer.

     v- Average customer lifetime: average length in which a customer stays your customer, to calculate customer lifetime value.

    vi- Customer lifetime value (CLV or LTV): amount of profit a company expects to earn from a specific customer over the average lifetime of a customer relationship.

* Sales metrics:-
     i- Qualified leads: A qualified lead is an individual who exhibits all of the characteristics that your team identifies as the ideal individual to sell to. This could include demographic, role, company size, or any other important qualities.

    ii- Lead to customer conversion rates: it can give both your sales and marketing team some insight to the audience you're targeting. Conversion rate (↑) -  you're targeting the right audience and your team is focusing on the right priorities, Conversion rate (↓) - potential customers are leaving somewhere in the pipeline.

   iii- Customer acquisition cost: how much your team spends on both marketing and sales strategies to convert a lead into a customer. Ideally, you want this number to be as close to zero as possible.

    iv- Total new customers: Tracking this metric can give you an indicator on how quickly your customer base is growing.

* Developer metrics:-
     i- Product uptime: This metric measures the time that your software is working over a given period of time. 

    ii- Bug response time: This is how quickly your team takes to identify a bug, find a patch solution, and push the fix into production. Issues can range from quick, five-minute fixes to full-fledged projects.

   iii- Daily active users: the number of users that use your software daily, This can help you understand how many of your customers actually use and value your software. If there is  a large gap between the number of customers and the number of daily active users, then your customers may not be finding value in your product.

    iv- Cycle time: The time it takes for a specific project to go from the very beginning to implementing the strategy into production. This is good to measure because it can help project managers get a sense of how long certain projects will take.

     v- Throughput: The measure of total work output a specific team develops. This includes anything that is ready to QA(Quality Assurance) and push into production.

* Human resource metrics:-
     i- Employee satisfaction: Similar to a net promoter score, an employee satisfaction score indicates how likely your employees would recommend your company as an employer to a friend or colleague. This is an important metric for HR teams because it can surface issues with company culture and policies that can be resolved.

    ii- Employee retention rate: Similar to a customer retention rate, employee retention rate measures how many of your employees stay with your company over a determined period of time. This is often measured annually. 

   iii- Employee feedback: Anecdotal employee feedback is just as valuable as customer feedback, if not more so. Employee feedback gives your team the opportunity to offer suggestions to help your company become a better employer, and in turn, increase employee retention rate.

  Note: Anecdotal employee feedback is informal, personal storytelling about work experiences, offering unique insights but risking bias as it's from one perspective.